DOCU-2191 Secrets Management (#3679)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/gateway/2.8.x/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/getting-started.md

---
title: Get Started with Secrets Management
beta: true
---

This feature is currently in beta state and isn't fully supported. APIs are subject to change.

Secrets are generally confidential values that should not appear in plain text in the application. There are several products that help you 
store, retrieve and rotate these secrets securely. Kong Gateway offers a mechanism to set up references to these secrets which makes your Kong Gateway

> installation more secure.

Reviewer: Just added something. See the secrets-management/index.md file for the intro; @jschmid1 feel free to expand.

---
title: Get Started with Secrets Management
beta: true
---

> {:.warning}
> > **Beta warning:**
> > ⚠️ This feature is currently in beta state and isn't fully supported. APIs are subject to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is currently in beta state and isn't fully supported. APIs are subject to change.
```
Same as previous comment.

> ## Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We try not to use "overview" or "introduction" headers.

Secrets are generally confidential values that should not appear in plain text in the application. There are several products that help you 
store, retrieve and rotate these secrets securely. Kong Gateway offers a mechanism to set up references to these secrets which makes your Kong Gateway
installation more secure.

## Getting started

{:.note}
> This feature isn't enabled by default in this version of Kong.
><br>

> > start Kong Gateway with <code>KONG_VAULTS=bundled</code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Start Kong Gateway with `KONG_VAULTS=bundled`.
```

### Define a reference

Define your environment variable and assign a secret value to it:

```bash
export MY_SECRET_POSTGRES_PASSWORD="opensesame"
```

Next, set up a `reference` to this environment variable so that Kong Gateway can find this secret. We use a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) format for this.

In this case, the reference would look like this:

```bash
{vault://env/my_secret_postgres_password}
```

Where:
* `vault` is the scheme (protocol) that we use to indicate that this a secret.
* `env` is the name of the backend [(EnvironmentVariable)](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/backends/env), since we're storing the secret in a ENV variable.
* `my_secret_postgres_password` corresponds to the environment variable that you just defined.

### Using the reference

You can specify configuration options using environment variables or by directly updating the `kong.conf` configuration file.

* Environment variable

```bash
KONG_PG_PASSWORD={vault://env/my_secret_postgres_password}
```

* Configuration file

the kong.conf has a key called "pg_password". Replace the original value with

```bash

> pg_password={vault://env/my_secret_postgres_password}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pg_password={vault://env/my-secret-postgres-password}
```

---

> title: Kong Secrets Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Get Started with Secrets Management
beta: true
```

---

> {:.warning .no-icon}
> > **Beta warning:** 
> > In this version of the feature, you have to explicitly enable this feature. 
> > <br>
> > <br>
> > KONG_VAULTS=vault-name
> > <br>
> > ⚠️This feature is currently in beta state and isn't fully supported. APIs are subject to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{:.warning .no-icon}
> **Beta warning:** 
> As this feature is in beta, APIs are subject to change. 
> In this version, you have to explicitly enable this feature by configuring the following parameter in your `kong.conf` file:
> ```
> KONG_VAULTS=vault-name
>```
```
There will already be a support warning before this paragraph with `beta: true`.

## Overview

> todo: do we want a preface on _why_ secrets management is useful and what it actually is?

Reviewer: Yes, this is needed.

> Kong offers a mechanism to reference secrets that are stored "somewhere else"(remotely isn't accurate here as "env" and "file" stores them locally).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong Gateway offers a mechanism to reference secrets that are stored in a secure location, either locally or remotely.
```

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

> In the following example we use the most basic form of secrets management. We are storing our secrets in an "Environment Variable".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the most basic form of secrets management: storing secrets in environment variables. In this example, you will replace a plaintext password to your Postgres database with a reference to an environment variable.
```

> A list of supported vault "backend" implementations can be found [here](/gateway/2.8.x/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/backends-overview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also store secrets in files or in secure vault backend. For a list of supported vault backend implementations, see the [Backends Overview](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/backends-overview).
```

> 
> 
> In this example we'll replace our plaintext password to our Postgres database with a reference. To do so, please define your environment variable and assign a secret value to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Defining a reference
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Define a reference

Define your environment variable and assign a secret value to it:

```

```bash
export MY_SECRET_POSTGRES_PASSWORD="opensesame"
```

> For Kong to be able to find this secret we have to set up a `reference` to this environment variable. We use a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) format for this. [See the Reference Format Section](/gateway/2.8.x/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/reference-format)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, set up a `reference` to this environment variable so that Kong Gateway can find this secret. We use a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) format for this. 
```

> In this case the reference would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the reference would look like this:
```

```bash
{vault://env/my_secret_postgres_password}
```

> Note that "vault" is just the scheme(protocol) that we use to indicate that this a secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where:
* `vault` is the scheme (protocol) that we use to indicate that this a secret.
```

> 
> `env` is the name of the backend [(EnvironmentVariable)](/gateway/2.8.x/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/backends/env) since we're storing the secret in a ENV variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `env` is the name of the backend [(EnvironmentVariable)](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/backends/env), since we're storing the secret in a ENV variable.
```

> 
> `my_secret_postgres_password` corresponds to the environment variable that we just defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `my_secret_postgres_password` corresponds to the environment variable that you just defined.
```

### Using the reference

> Kong offers multiple ways to specify configuration options. Choose either of these options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify configuration options using environment variables or by directly updating the `kong.conf` configuration file.
```

* Environment variable

```bash
KONG_PG_PASSWORD={vault://env/my_secret_postgres_password}
```

* Configuration file

the kong.conf has a key called "pg_password". Replace the original value with

```bash
pg_password={vault://env/my_secret_postgres_password}
```

> 

Reviewer: You can use regular tabs for these instead of a list (without the `codeblock` class).

Upon startup, Kong will try to detect and transparently resolve references.

> {:.note}
> >  For quick debug/testing you can use the new [CLI for vaults](/gateway/2.8.x/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/advanced-usage/#vaults-cli)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For debugging and testing, you can use the [CLI for vaults](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/advanced-usage/#vaults-cli).
```

> Some vault backends accept a multitude of configurations. Visit the [Advanced Usage Section](/gateway/2.8.x/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/advanced-usage) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Advanced Usage](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/advanced-usage) documentation for more information on the configuration options for each vault backend.
```
